Services Standars

It is required that adjusters will follow these practices when representing Engage Solutions, whilst handling claims

(valores)

	Immediate Contact Rule 
The immediate contact rule may be the most important principle of successful insurance claims handling, we estimate that any insured must be contacted within 24 hours after we receive the claim. It is also the embodiment of “aggressive good faith”. Immediate contact is absolutely essential to conduct a first-rate investigation. Evidence must be fresh. With delay, the recollections of witnesses dim and they lose their credibility. Injured parties have time to reflect on the circumstances of an accident and may begin to develop resentment and hostility toward persons responsible for their damages. We must give them immediate attention.

	Timely and Continuous Communication 
A number of jurisdictions recognize bad faith actions based on negligence with regard to claims processing, evaluation and negotiation. In many cases, this is neglect on the part of the insurance adjuster to communicate with the insured.
The law requires adjusters to make timely and continuous communication. To avoid a “failure to acknowledge and act reasonably promptly upon communications,” you must communicate promptly whenever you receive communications regarding a claim under consideration. “Failing to affirm or deny coverage of claims within a reasonable time” relates directly to failure of communication. To avoid “failure to provide promptly a reasonable explanation for denial of a claim or for the offer of a compromise settlement” requires a prompt and complete communication.


	Meticulousness 
The requirements of the Unfair Claims Settlement Practices and the legal rules regarding good faith conduct places great emphasis upon meticulousness. Webster’s Collegiate Dictionary refers to being meticulous as being “extremely careful and precise”

	Honesty 
The standard of morality adopted and enforced by our courts places prime importance on the concept of honesty in the handling of insurance claims. Any suggestion that dishonesty on the adjuster’s part was involved in the handling of the claim could have negative consequences for the adjuster and the adjuster’s employer.
	
	Fairness 
An insurance policy is a contract. It is governed by the same rules of fairness which are an intrinsic part of the legal principles that govern commercial transactions. Fairness is expected and constant reference is made to the concept of fairness in the court cases relating bad faith conduct of insurers and their claims handling personnel

	Reasonableness
An examination of the Unfair Claims Settlement Practices shows the importance of reasonable conduct. “Failure to act reasonably, failing to adopt and implement reasonable standards, failing to conduct a reasonable investigation and failing to affirm or deny coverage of claims within a reasonable time” is language contained in the NAIC Model Act. Continuing, “not attempting in good faith to effectuate prompt, fair and equitable settlements of claims in which liability has become reasonably clear,” “failing to promptly settle claims where liability has become reasonably clear under one portion of the insurance policy coverage, in order to influence settlements under other portions of the insurance policy coverage”, and “failing to provide promptly a reasonable explanation” or additional references to the word reasonable are contained in the Model Act.
Reasonableness is mandatory if one is to practice “aggressive good faith”. The failure to act in a reasonable manner is not “aggressive good faith”.

